---
title: "Rescue From Without"
date: 2020-09-24T13:49:45+01:00
draft: true
tags:
  - journal
  - biketrip
---

**Location:** Bastogne -> Liege -> Aachen -> Berlin

I got to the bus station to buy a ticket, only to discover that the machine
requires a certain MoBIB membership card, which you load trips on. Sounds
more or less like an oyster card in london. Because of covid, buses aren't
accepting cash. Frantically, with time ticking down, I attempted to register
online for one of these cards. Once you register and order a card, you can
start putting trips onto your account, and then ride. I registered and then
searched the site in vain, finding no way to order a card. With 5min to go
before the bus showed up, I died to throw myself at the driver's mercy.

A couple in front of me has a similar tale to tell the bus driver. He waved
them on, so it didn't seem to be a problem. What was a problem, however, was
the bike. I spoke with a driver of the same bus line the previous night and
he told me it wouldn't be an issue to put my bike down below in the luggage
compartment. The driver today, however, didn't seem to want me to. After
begging and pleading in french he unhappily relented, stomped down from the
driver seat, and opened the storage under the bus. My bike didn't fit, so I
frantically removed the front wheel (which required unpacking one of my bags
to get my multitool), squeezed my bike in, and got on the bus.

My front wheel is held in place by a pin, I suppose equivalent to an axle,
that has a removeable spring on either end that seem to function like
washers. In my rush, I lost one of the springs. It's an acceptable sacrifice
for the bus ride.

The bus rode past the turn off to the l'achouffe brewery, the same turn I
took on my fourth day of the trip, after having fixed a flat and despairing
that I wouldn't be able to complete this trip.

I've seemingly made it. Getting on the bus was the one major worry I had, the
first link in a chain of travel that could have sunk the entire return trip.
I breathed a sigh of relief, as the bus takes me directly to the train
station where I have nearly 30min to transfer, and each subsequent transfer
is incredibly easy.

I leaned back in my seat. This has been a most excellent adventure.

## The enemy of good is better

After making it to the train station and onto my first train without issue, I
thought to myself, maybe I should tighten the screw holding the pin on my
front wheel in place (the one I removed so I could fit my bike in the bus).
The rod sheared right off on one of the ends as I over-tightened the screw. I
did this on the train from Liege to Welkenraedt. Fortunately the pin was
still long enough that the front tire could rest on it, and I could roll the
bike. I wheeled my bike across the platform to catch the short train over the
border into Aachen, and found a bike shop near the hauptbahnhof where I could
buy a replacement. Turns out it only cost 5EUR.

Being back at the Aachen HBF where it all started felt surreal. I remember so
clearly arriving here at the start of the trip, buying two sandwiches (dinner
and breakfast), and heading off onto a trip that was going to end up being
nothing how I expected. My bike was loaded all wrong. My planning all went
out the window by day two. I got to know my bike really well. Which front and
rear gear combinations work, which ones don't, how I should shift based on
elevation change. I developed a system where I knew where everything I had
was kept in my bags, how to distribute the weight, and the order in which I
would need my things. I'm going to get a book and figure out how to take
apart and rebuild my bike this winter.

Adventure is just bad planning.

## End of Bike Trip
