---
title: "Rough Going"
date: 2020-09-09T14:16:23+02:00
draft: true
tags:
  - journal
  - biketrip
---

**Location**: Lac Gileppe -> Sourbrodt

I broke camp early and ate my leftover sandwich that I bought in Aachen HBF. It
was bread and camembert, and would become my diet for the next three weeks
(although I did not know this at the time).

The biking was brutal uphill. I had been "training" in the previous months, but
15 sets of 3min hill runs do not come close to preparing you for a 2.5 hour
uphill grind. Looking back, maybe this would have been fine if I had known
better how to shift my gears. It almost certainly would have been better if I
hadn't overpacked. These were lessons that I learned, but looking back, I was
always going to make this first mistake. Having gone backpacking several times
I tried to pack light but felt overconfident in how much my bike could hold.

The area I was in is dotted with small villages. There is no shortage of places
to get food, but a lot of restaurants are closed on Monday, or Tuesday, or
both. In addition to that, they have a break in the middle of the day during
down times (2pm-6pm) when they aren't open.

I had picked a restaurant for lunch only to discover that it was not open on
this day. I wasn't surprised, but still disappointed. I cycled further on to a
place that was finally open and ordered a beer. I couldn't decide between
spaghetti bolognese and and cheese croquettes (small bits of cheese, breaded
and fried). Deciding on the croquettes, allegedly more of the region, I knew I
made the wrong choice when I saw the size of the bolognese. Should have gone
with that.

Post-meal the path took a turn for the downhill. It felt really good, I was
making a lot of kilometers, so when the path became extremely rocky and steep,
I tried my luck on the bike. Following a lot of bouncing, I came out seemingly
ok. A short flat ride later and I was on to the next rocky descent for a ride
along the river.

I passed another [closed restaurant](https://g.page/moulin-du-bayehon?share)
and rode on further south. This time the rocks got the better of me. Reaching
the flat part after about a kilometer of riding down, I realized my back tire
was flat. It was damp by the river and the trail was not quite mud, and my
shirt clung to my back. I had hoped to make it the entire trip without getting
a flat.

I removed my bags from my bike, removed the tire, and then took off the
innertube.  I first tried patching the tire. After putting on a glueless patch
over the small tear in the innertube, I found two more. I patched them. And
then I found even more rips and decided to use a fresh innertube.

The pump I had with me I purchased for cheap in Berlin. It was not a good pump.
After pumping up my new innertube, removing the pump also unscrewed the end of
the pin, deflating the tire. I tried twice more to unsuccessfully inflate and
remove my pump from the tire.

Now, sitting on the side of the damp path, I wasn't sure what to do. I wasn't
near anywhere helpful and I couldn't inflate my rear tire.

Four belgians on mountain bikes rode by, and I flagged them down for help. Amid
handwaving and terrible french, I was able to explain to them what happened.
They didn't have innertubes that fit my bike, but they tried to inflate my
innertube. My cheap pump had damaged the innertube so even they could not
inflate my innertube.

They told me a [bike shop](https://goo.gl/maps/XriVyoQBTw1h5j7o9) to go to, and
to walk back up the path to the closed restaurant and call for a taxi.

This sounds good in theory, but I knew my french would not be able to handle
that. As I'm pushing my bike uphill and damaging my rear tire rim, I came
across a car with a Netherlands license plate. I flag them down and speak with
them in english. The young couple is friendly and helpful; the wife speaks
french and calls a taxi service for me.

The cost for the taxi to come from Malmedy and then take me to the bike shop in
Sourbrodt is 40 euros. It's a 45min walk, so I opt to walk.

It was not a thrilling walk. I've been spending more time walking my bike than
riding it at this point. I'm glad I opted to wear hiking boots for my ride.

Arriving at the shop I go inside and speak with a lady behind the counter,
explaining in french that I need two innertubes and a pump. After buying them,
I head outside to put on my new innertube. This is the third innertube I've put
on my bike today.

New innertube on, I return inside to drop off the ruined tire. The french lady
I spoke with was the only woman in the shop. As I walk in, I notice that all of
the men working in the shop are speaking german. I was in a [german speaking
part of Belgium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waimes). That would have been
helpful to know when trying to buy the new innertube.

I was tired and hungry and had no motivation to keep riding. I found the
nearest campsite, thankfully only 15min away, and rode there. It cost 3 euros,
and I couldn't have been more relieved. I bought dinner at a nearby gastation.

<img style="max-width: 100%; width: auto; height: auto;" loading="lazy" src="/images/sourbrodt_dinner.jpeg" alt="dinner">
<figcaption><small>A meal fit for a king: beer, cheese, and gas station sandwich.</small></figcaption>

The hot shower and drinking water made the 3 euros well worth it.
